Beware of poorly formatted tables.
Although spreadsheets like Excel, .xls, .xlsx are widely used in research, they often result in poorly structured and unusable tables.
In fact, tables are among the most problematic data objects in research due to formatting issues such as...
Merged cells that confuse parsing tools and make automation difficult.
In consistent structures where multiple variables are crammed into a single column or row.
Next content such as tables combined with graphs, formatting, or commentary.
These issues make data hard to clean, validate, reuse, or preserve.
Unfortunately, they're common, especially in supplementary materials of research articles.
Good data practices start with structure.
If your tables are not machine readable and logically organized, they lose much of their value for others and for future you.